Adding documentation about OpenAI API compatibility for the Qiskit Code Assistant (#2663)
Qiskit/documentation: docs/guides/qiskit-code-assistant-openai-api.mdx

---
title: Qiskit Code Assistant - OpenAI API compatibility

> description: Learn how to integrate the Qiskit Code Assistant with other applications through the OpenAI completions API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to integrate Qiskit Code Assistant with other applications through the OpenAI completions API.
```

---

<Admonition type="note" title="Notes">
    - The Qiskit Code Assistant's OpenAI API compatibility is in preview release status and is subject to change.
    - If you have feedback or want to contact the developer team, use the [Qiskit Slack Workspace channel](https://qiskit.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C07LYA6PL83) or the related public GitHub repositories.
</Admonition>

> # Qiskit Code Assistant - OpenAI API Compatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Qiskit Code Assistant - OpenAI API compatibility
```

> The Qiskit Code Assistant offers compatibility with a subset of the OpenAI API specification, specifically with the [completions API endpoints](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/completions). The goal of this compatibility is to allow third party packages to connect to the Qiskit Code Assistant seamlessly by using well known AI-related libraries and methods such as [OpenAI](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), [LiteLLM](https://github.com/BerriAI/litellm), or others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Qiskit Code Assistant offers compatibility with a subset of the OpenAI API specification, specifically with the [completions API endpoints](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/completions). The goal of this compatibility is to allow third-party packages to connect to Qiskit Code Assistant seamlessly by using well-known AI-related libraries and methods such as [OpenAI](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), [LiteLLM](https://github.com/BerriAI/litellm), or others.
```

## OpenAI API endpoints supported

| Method | Path | Comment |
|--|--|---|
| **GET** | `/v1/models` | List all models |
| **GET** | `/v1/model/{model}` | Get model detail |
| **POST** | `/v1/completions` | Send prompt to model for completion |

> > [!NOTE]
> > The `/v1/completions` endpoint fails with a `403` error if the model disclaimer has been accepted. See below for how to view and accept the model disclaimer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Admonition type="note">
The `/v1/completions` endpoint fails with a `403` error if the model disclaimer has been accepted. See the following for how to view and accept the model disclaimer.
</Admonition>
```

Additional endpoints (not part of OpenAI schema, provided for convenience) include:

| Method | Path | Comment |
|--|--|---|
| **GET** | `/v1/model/{model}/disclaimer` | Get model's disclaimer |
| **POST** | `/v1/model/{model}/disclaimer` | Accept model's disclaimer |
| **POST** | `/v1/completions/accept` | Accept or reject completion |

To retrieve/view the model disclaimer, make a **GET** request to the disclaimer endpoint. For example:

```
curl -X 'GET' \
  'https://qiskit-code-assistant.quantum.ibm.com/v1/model/granite-8b-qiskit/disclaimer' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <IBM Quantum API token>'
```

If you agree with the model disclaimer, to accept it, **POST** to the disclaimer endpoint providing the disclaimer's ID and whether it is accepted or rejected. For example:

```
curl -X 'POST' \
  'https://qiskit-code-assistant.quantum.ibm.com/v1/model/granite-8b-qiskit/disclaimer' \
  -H 'accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <IBM Quantum API token>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "disclaimer": "<DISCLAIMER_ID>",
  "accepted": true
}'
```

## Examples

> ### Using the official OpenAI python library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use the official OpenAI Python library
```

> The OpenAI Python library provides convenient access to the OpenAI REST API (such as the one provided by the Qiskit Code Assistant) from any Python 3.8+ application. Check out the details about installation in https://github.com/openai/openai-python?tab=readme-ov-file#installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenAI Python library provides convenient access to the OpenAI REST API (such as the one provided by Qiskit Code Assistant) from any Python 3.8+ application. See more details in the [Installation section](https://github.com/openai/openai-python?tab=readme-ov-file#installation) of the OpenAI Python API library Readme.
```

```
from openai import OpenAI

# Initialize the client with your API key
client = OpenAI(api_key=auth_token_iqp, base_url=assistant_url)

# Make a request to the completions API
try:
    response = client.completions.create(
        model=model,  # or another compatible model
        prompt="#Transpile a random circuit using the Qiskit Transpiler Service",
    )

    # Print the generated text
    print(response.choices[0].text)

except Exception as e:
    print(f"An error occurred: {e}")
```

> ### Using LiteLLM
> 
> LiteLLM is a convenient Python library to access multiple LLM APIs using the OpenAI format [Bedrock, Huggingface, VertexAI, TogetherAI, Azure, OpenAI, Groq etc.]. Check out how to install it in https://github.com/BerriAI/litellm?tab=readme-ov-file#usage-docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use LiteLLM

LiteLLM is a convenient Python library to access multiple LLM APIs using the OpenAI format (Bedrock, Huggingface, VertexAI, TogetherAI, Azure, OpenAI, Groq, and so on). See the [LiteLLM docs](https://github.com/BerriAI/litellm?tab=readme-ov-file#usage-docs) for more details.
```
